After the Passover of 32 C.E.,
Jesus and his disciples were
in Phoenicia of Syria,
north of the borders of Israel.
Even in this non-Israelite territory,
Jesus couldn’t escape notice.
Please open your Bibles to Matthew chapter 15
—and you may want to put
a place marker there—
Matthew chapter 15, starting in verse 22.
A Greek woman born in Phoenicia
found Jesus and begged him
to heal her daughter.
The verse says that the girl was
“cruelly demon possessed.”
Verse 23 says that Jesus did not say
a word in answer to the mother.
After a while, his disciples urged him:
“Send her away,
because she keeps crying out after us.”
The mother was persistent.
In response, Jesus explained his reason
for ignoring her in verse 24:
“I was not sent to anyone
except to the lost sheep
of the house of Israel.”
How would the woman respond?
Would Jesus’ seeming rejection
discourage her?
Would she lose faith?
In the following video, look for evidence
of the Phoenician woman’s
extraordinary faith.
No, I was not Jewish,
but I saw that this Jesus
was no ordinary man.
I had heard about his power to help others,
and my daughter was suffering.
I wouldn’t take no for an answer.
I couldn’t.
This man was from God.
There was nowhere else to turn.
I had faith in Jesus.
When he heard me, he said:
“Let it happen to you as you wish.”
And then it did!
My beautiful, precious daughter
was healthy and smiling again.
Because of her faith, the Phoenician woman
overcame the fear of prejudice
that could have prevented her
from approaching Jesus.
Remember, she was of Greek descent;
Jesus was Jewish.
But as stated in the video,
she heard reports of Jesus’ power
to help others
and she realized that this man was from God.
Notice in verse 22, she addressed Jesus
as “Lord, Son of David.”
She publicly acknowledged
that Jesus was the promised Messiah.
And even though at first
he didn’t respond to her
and then explained his reason for doing so,
she didn’t become discouraged.
Let’s continue with the account in verse 25
to see the strong faith of this woman:
“But the woman came
and did obeisance to him, saying:
‘Lord, help me!’”
How Jesus must have been moved
by the woman’s heartfelt appeal!
Apparently, though,
Jesus wanted to test her faith.
Like a parent who plans to grant
a child’s request
but doesn’t give an outward sign of that plan
in order to test the child’s seriousness,
notice what Jesus tells her in verse 26:
“It is not right to take the bread
of the children
and throw it to the little dogs.”
Among the Greeks and Romans,
the dog was often a beloved pet
that lived in its owner’s house
and played with the children.
The expression “little dogs,”
or perhaps a house dog,
might have reminded the woman
of a warm, endearing picture.
By likening the Israelites to children
and non-Jews to little dogs,
Jesus evidently wanted to indicate
an order of priority.
In a household with both children and dogs,
the children would be fed first.
So Jesus meant that he couldn’t care
for non-Israelites
at the expense of deserving Jews.
Rather than take offense, the woman
discerned the point of the illustration
and humbly stated in verse 27:
“Yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat
of the crumbs falling from the table
of their masters.”
What a beautiful response!
And what was the result
of the woman’s remarkable faith?
Verse 28:
“Then Jesus replied to her:
“‘O woman, great is your faith;
“let it happen to you as you wish.’
And her daughter was healed
from that hour on.”
The woman’s faith was rewarded
when Jesus healed her daughter.
What an example of strong faith!
In the following dramatization,
note how someone who has just started
to have a good relationship with God
might need to display strong faith
like that of the Phoenician woman.
I never thought it would happen.
I finally found what I’d been searching for
—a good relationship with God.
Then one day,
a coworker texted an article
that claimed to expose Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I was tempted to read it,
and then I thought back
to when I first met Jehovah’s Witnesses.
I was so excited about what they taught me
from the Bible
—that God’s name is Jehovah,
the Kingdom is a real government,
and so much more.
Why would I want to learn
about Jehovah’s Witnesses from their enemies?
But my friends?
Not so much.
I saw people who really loved one another.
It’s a real brotherhood.
But it wasn’t just the people.
This was the truth!
I didn’t need to learn
about Jehovah’s Witnesses from their enemies.
I had seen for myself
that they worship the true God, Jehovah.
Did you notice how the young man recognized
and put faith in Jehovah’s organization?
That was a protection,
so he wasn’t misled by lies from our enemies.
His faith might have reminded you
of the Phoenician woman.
Remember, she recognized and put faith
in Jehovah’s representative, his Son.
The question we need to consider is,
How can we imitate
the Phoenician woman’s strong faith?
Like that woman, we need to recognize
Jehovah’s representatives
and associate with them.
At Matthew 24:45,
Jesus identified these representatives.
He foretold that in our day he would use
“the faithful and discreet slave”
to provide
spiritual “food at the proper time.”
Why can we have strong faith
that the Governing Body is filling that role
of “the faithful and discreet slave”?
Consider three lines of evidence.
First, there’s evidence
of holy spirit guiding these brothers.
For example, holy spirit
has helped the Governing Body
to grasp Scriptural truths
not previously understood.
These brothers feel as the apostle Paul did,
who wrote at 1 Corinthians 2:13:
“These things we also speak,
not with words taught by human wisdom,
but with those taught by the spirit.”
Second, we see evidence
of angelic assistance.
The Governing Body has the immense task
of overseeing an international preaching work
involving over eight million evangelizers.
The overall growth of the preaching
and disciple-making work,
despite fierce opposition in some lands,
has been possible
only with superhuman assistance.
A third line of evidence
is reliance on God’s Word.
Some religions may revise teachings
in order to appease beliefs and opinions
of their members.
But our dear brothers of the Governing Body
allow their decisions to be guided
by God’s Word,
rather than popular opinion.
We can have strong faith
that Jehovah, through his Son,
is directing the Governing Body.
And we need to remain loyal
to these faithful brothers
and to Jehovah’s organization,
despite attempts by opposers
to discredit them.
What will be the outcome if we do?
Think back to the example
of the Phoenician woman.
Was she rewarded for her strong faith?
Yes—when her beloved daughter was healed.
Likewise, if you display strong faith
and follow the direction
of our Leader, Jesus,
he will lead you to everlasting life.
Brother William Malenfant,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
will now present the next talk
of this symposium,
“Imitate Women of Strong Faith!—Martha.”